Improve readme and documentation (#45)
EcoExtreML/zampy: docs/index.md

# Zampy

A tool for downloading Land Surface Model (LSM) input data.

Named after *Zam*; [the Avestan language term for the Zoroastrian concept of "earth"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zam).

## Why using Zampy
`zampy` is designed to retrieve data for LSM model input. It can help you prepare the data within the following steps:

1. **Download** the data for the specified location(s) / geographical area.
2. **Ingest** data into unified (zampy) format.
3. **Load** the variables in a standardized way (standardized names & standardized units).
4. **Convert** the data to standard formats:
    - ALMA / PLUMBER2's ALMA formatted netCDF.
    - *CMOR formatted netCDF*.

(Note: items in *italic* will not be worked on for now/low priority, but we want to allow space for these in the future.)

## How to use Zampy

> To install `zampy`, check [this guide](configuration.md). Please also make sure that you have it properly configured following the guidelines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install and configure`zampy`, fist check [this guide](configuration.md) before continuing. Please also make sure that you have properly configured it following the guidelines.
```

We recommend our users to use `zampy` with recipes.

> A "recipe" is a file with yml extension, it defines:

Reviewer: This list is broken in the docs preview. You need an empty line before the list.
```suggestion
A "recipe" is a file with yml extension, it defines:

```

> - data downloading
>   - time extent.
>   - spatial location / bounding box.
>   - datasets to be downloaded
>     - variables within datasets
> - data conversion
>   - convert to desired [conventions](https://github.com/EcoExtreML/zampy/tree/main/src/zampy/conventions)
>   - output frequency
>   - output resolution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- which data to download:
  - the time extent
  - a spatial bounding box
  - the datasets to be downloaded
    - the variables within each dataset
- and data conversion to the desired:
  - [convention](https://github.com/EcoExtreML/zampy/tree/main/src/zampy/conventions)
  - time frequency
  - spatial resolution
```

Reviewer: It would be nice to have a docs page on conventions. Can you make an issue for that? No need to do it now.

Author: Good point! I will create an issue for it.

A sample recipe is shown below:

```yaml
name: "test_recipe"

download:
  time: [2020-01-01, 2020-01-31] # must follow the numpy.datetime64 format.
  bbox: [54, 6, 50, 3] # NESW

  datasets:
    era5:
      variables:
        - eastward_component_of_wind
        - surface_pressure

    cams:
      variables:
        - co2_concentration
    
convert:
  convention: ALMA
  frequency: 1H  # outputs at 1 hour frequency. Pandas-like freq-keyword.
  resolution: 0.5  # output resolution in degrees.
```

You can specify multiple datasets and multiple variables per dataset. Information on the available datasets and their variables is shown [here](available_datasets.md).

When you have your reciped created and saved on your disk, you can execute your recipe by running the following code in your shell:

```py
zampy /path_to_recipe/sample_recipe.yml
```

### Interact with `zampy` in notebooks

> Although it is not recommended, you could intereact with `zampy` via Python APIs. You can find the example notebooks for each supported dataset [here](https://github.com/EcoExtreML/zampy/tree/main/demo).

Reviewer: Let's say why it's not recommended: It's not easily reproducible that way, unlike the yaml recipes.
```suggestion
It is possible to use `zampy` directly in Python via its Python API. This is not recommended, as it is more difficult to reproduce the workflow if there is no recipe.
As it is an internal API, python code can break without warning on new versions of Zampy.
An example notebooks for each supported dataset is available [here](https://github.com/EcoExtreML/zampy/tree/main/demo).
```
